# Lista 14

### Zadanie 5

GNU Diffutils is a package of several programs related to finding differences between files.

Computer users often find occasion to ask how two files differ. Perhaps one file is a newer version of the other file. Or maybe the two files started out as identical copies but were changed by different people.

You can use the diff command to show differences between two files, or each corresponding file in two directories. diff outputs differences between files line by line in any of several formats, selectable by command line options. This set of differences is often called a “diff” or “patch”. For files that are identical, diff normally produces no output; for binary (non-text) files, diff normally reports only that they are different.

You can use the cmp command to show the offsets and line numbers where two files differ. cmp can also show all the characters that differ between the two files, side by side.

You can use the diff3 command to show differences among three files. When two people have made independent changes to a common original, diff3 can report the differences between the original and the two changed versions, and can produce a merged file that contains both persons' changes together with warnings about conflicts.

You can use the sdiff command to merge two files interactively.

##### Kluczowe funkcje narzędzia diff

    -   Porównanie dwóch plików linia po linii.
    -   Generowanie plików łat w różnych formatach (np. normal, context, unified).
    -   Obsługa dużych plików i folderów.
    -   Ignorowanie białych znaków i innych drobnych różnic.
    -   Możliwość porównywania plików binarnych.



```
diff -u original_file modified_file > patch_file.diff
```

Ciekawsze flagi `diff`:
    -   -u/-c pokazuje kilka linii kontekstu wokół różnic (-c abrdziej szczegółowo)
    -   -i ignoruje różnice w wielkości liter
    -   -w ignoruje wszystkie różnice w białych znakach
    -   -B ignoruje różnice wynikające z pustych linii
    -   -r porównuje katalogi rekurencyjnie
        -   -N traktuje brakujące pliki jako puste


##### patch

Narzędzie patch stosuje zmiany opisane w pliku łat (ang. patch) do oryginalnych plików. Dzięki temu można łatwo aktualizować pliki do nowej wersji.

```
patch original_file < patch_file.diff
```

